Let's talk about something called snapshot testing.
I'm a big fan of snapshot testing because
it allows you to take a photo of a component,
or an object, or a string art.
You can take a photo of anything
and if that were to ever change,
maybe for some reason it accidentally
got flipped over to a country where they don't use
dots for cents, where they use commas for that,
then you would immediately be notified that
hey, something changed in the component,
and these two snapshots, these two photos
of the things are not exactly lining up.
I'm a big fan of this because you don't have
to do all of this finding and traversal
and checking for the text inside of something.
You can just take a picture of a component
and if that picture ever changes for whatever reason
then it's going to alert you that your tests are failing.
Let's actually go into our item.test js
and let's comment out all of the tests that we have
written so far, and let's just do a very simple
snapshot test with outside of a react component.
We'll say, it renders
and matches the snapshot.
I'm just gonna use a very, very simple string
to show you the difference here.
I'll say, const price is equal to $50.34.
I'm gonna take a snapshot of that string,
so we will expect the price
to match snapshot.
That's going to be it.
What happens is the test is automatically going to fail.
If we open up our tests right here,
it's going to tell us one snapshot written in one
test suite and I guess this is also telling me
if I give it another save it will then pass,
cause the snapshot has been written.
If you open up your sidebar here,
you're going to see this new folder,
underscore, underscore, snapshots,
and you open that up and you'll see a snapshot file
that relates to the tests that you've written.
If we open it up, you'll see that the snapshot
tells us what the actual test is, the item renders
and matches the snapshot, and then it tells
us what it's expecting.
If the thing it took a snapshot of will ever change,
then we will immediately be notified.
If I were to change this to $50.35,
and give it a save, now all of a sudden
our test is failing because our snapshot has broken.
Here it is, it's telling us that it received the value
of 35 cents, and this always has seemed backwards to me,
the red plus, this is not an error with JS,
this is just how it works.
The thing that we were expecting is in red,
and the thing that is stored in the snapshot is in green,
so it it'll tell us what the difference is between the two
and it's frozen error.
At this point, we are failing our tests,
and we can either do two things,
we can go in and figure out why our tests are failing,
or we can just update our snapshot and be like
yeah, I meant for that to happen.
If you updated a component and you changed a little bit
of text, maybe you added an extra element,
you say, yeah I added those extra elements,
go ahead and update the snapshot.
The way that you update your snapshot is you press
U, everything is good, go back into the snapshot,
now it's showing me 35 cents.
What we can do is, we can get rid of this
snapshot here, and get rid of this price here.
Now it's telling us that there are obsolete snapshots.
We're no longer testing, so you can press U,
it's gonna delete, you see that.
Close the tab there and I no longer have
that snapshot in my snapshot folder.
What we can do here is go ahead and render out
our component, so const wrapper = shallow.
We'll render out our item component,
we'll pass the item, which is still our fake item.
Then, we simply need to say,
expect the wrapper.to match snapshot
There we go, it went ahead and created a snapshot.
You always have to check your snapshot the very first time
because this could put anything in this file.
This is sort of a slippery slope and why
people don't like snapshot is because
it could put anything into that snapshot,
it could put undefined and then your tests would be
passing and you can go on your merry way.
Always go in and triple check your snapshot
that we have here.
You're gonna see that our snapshot is shallow wrapper.
That's the actual wrapper, it has a length,
all these symbols on it, and inside of it-
there's our actual title, this is the actual code
that we're in.
What we actually need is a separate serializer
to take this shallowly rendered react component
and use what we used in debug to show us
the piece that we care about, and not
any of these other properties.
What we're gonna do here is we're gonna go up
and import toJSON
from this package called
enzyme-to-jSON and this is just an adapter
that's gonna convert our react components
to the HTML that we're used to seeing when
we console log the debug.
Then we go back here and we expect the toJSON wrapper
to match snapshot.
It's gonna fail because our snapshot is now different,
so we're gonna press U to update it.
Now, if we go and look at our snapshot this is
what we're looking for.
We are expecting the item that renders and matches
the snapshot, and then it just shows us that
we have our item here, we have our image,
we have our title, all of our paths
and query ID's look the same, a cool item
is in there, we get our button list
with everything that we want.
This is all the HTML that we're looking for,
so I'm really happy about that.
Now, if anything were to ever change about our data-
so let's change the price from $50
to $40, give it a save, and immediately our snapshots
start to fail and it tells us exactly,
oh I'm now getting $40, but the snapshot shows me $50.
You can go ahead and update those yourself
by pressing U, and then the snapshot will be updated.
One really cool thing about that, is that your snapshots
is gonna be part of your git repo, and whenever you
check in a changed react component-
Let's go ahead and try and change item.js
and let's put a poop beside it.
Wouldn't be a tutorial with me without an emoji poop.
Then all of a sudden, you are going to see
that this was added.
I can press update to update my snapshot, U,
and then the snapshots go into your git repo.
Anytime I commit a change to a react component,
that PO request is also gonna come along
with a snapshot that shows me just the pieces
of it that have changed, and in our case
it's just adding a little poop emoji,
and then the reviewer will be able to say okay,
here is the logic in the code of the component that changed,
and here is the change of the output at the end of the day.
That's why I really like snapshot testing.
Let's take that poop outta there,
update our snapshot, and we're in good shape.
One other component that I wanna work on snapshots
with you, so let's test this out right now,
is our cart count.js.
This is our cart count component that will simply
just take in an amount and display in a red dot
how many items are in there.
It's very simple, let's write a quick test for it.
Go into our test folder, make cart count.test.js,
and let's import both shallow, and mount from enzyme,
we import our toJSON from enzyme-to-json,
import cart count from our components directory,
now go ahead and describe our test.
It's gonna be cart count,
and inside of there we're gonna say it renders.
What I like to do is always just make sure that
it renders out fine, and then go ahead
and try to do a separate snapshot.
What that will do is it will make sure that if
your component is having trouble rendering,
it's gonna fail the render test before it fails
the snapshot test.
We'll just say it renders.
Shallow render the cart count component.
That will take account of, let's just call it 10.
In this case we don't even need an expect
because if something goes wrong with shallow rendering this,
it's going to error out,
and that's gonna make the test fail and that's really nice.
If I were to go here and forget to export this,
all of a sudden my test is failing and
it says cart count is failing to render,
so we know that something is wrong with that.
That's the first nice little quick test.
Next one, we'll say it matches the snapshot,
we'll make a wrapper,
and we'll expect the
toJSON of the wrapper
to match the snapshot.
It looks like it wrote a new snapshot,
let's go ahead and look at it.
In here, we have our transition group,
we have our CSS transition, inside of that we have
our count cart dot and it shows us 10.
If we were to ever change that to 11,
you see that we're gonna fail, and it tells us
that we went from 11 to 12.
I can go ahead and update that, and all of
my snapshots are now matching.
Looking good.
One other thing I should say about the snapshot,
is that you don't have to snapshot the entire component.
You can also wrapper.find, you can find a span
inside of that and just snapshot that piece.
If you're feeling a little bit uneasy, kind of going
carte blanche just snapshotting the entire component.
You could have multiple snapshots of different pieces
of your component that will match it.
That's certainly something we're gonna be doing
as we test through the different components in this course.
Next one, we want to check if it can update
it's props properly and then show us.
It updates via props,
so we'll grab our wrapper again.
I'm just gonna duplicate this one here,
so we're doing the same thing.
We're gonna start with 50,
and we're gonna expect the toJSON of the wrapper
to match snapshot, then we're going to update the prop,
so we say wrapper.set props
and we're just going to update the count to 10.
Then we're just gonna check the snapshot again.
Were gonna snapshot it, change the count,
and then snapshot it again and what that should do,
if we go here, you should see the snapshot has then
been changed to 10 here, but the previous one was set to 50.
We know that if we update a prop it's actually going to
update the HTML that gets shown at the end of the day.
I'm a big fan of snapshots.
This little VS Code thing I have allows you
to actually view the snapshot right from here,
which I find pretty handy as well, cause you can just hover
over top and click view snapshot, so pretty nifty.
That is snapshot testing.
One other thing I wanna show you is the difference
between mounting and shallow.
This has been shallow so far,
but let's change that to mount.
Nevermind the failing snapshots, but let's just console log
the wrapper.debug.
We'll just return after that.
Let's just get rid of all these errors we got going on here.
There we go.
What's going on here is that now that I mounted it,
you're seeing that we actually have real spans
and we have real class names, and we have real classes
that got added to it.
You'll see here they have class names and everything
because mounting it will actually run it in sort
of a browser environment, whereas shallow will only
go one level deep.
In most cases, in this course, we are going to actually
be mounting it and the reason why we do that is
because not all of our components, most of our components
aren't gonna be as clean as this item in the cart count
where we simply just pass in via props and we can
check all of the data inside of them.
Most of them are going to have nested mutations
and queries inside of them where we do need
to mount it six or seven levels deep
in order to get the thing actually working.
Another benefit to mounting is that you're actually
running it, sort of as if it were running in the browser
and I kind of go along with the idea of your tests
should be as close to actually running them
in the browser as possible.
As close to the user will be using them
at the end of the day.
We can't mount anything just yet cause we
don't know how to mock our Apollo store,
but that what we're gonna be doing in the
next couple of videos is learning how to mock Apollo,
so we can mount these things and start to trigger
things like clicks, and whatnot, that are in there.
Let's bring this back to just shallow,
and everything is up and running, make sure all your
tests are passing, and your snapshots look good.
Let's jump on into the next video.